---
layout: module
title: 3.0 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

**Tested On:_ PennMUSH 1.8.2.p3**

Although some of the systems are still there, this was effectively a ground-up redo of everything.  The systems integrate together now, and there are a lot more systems available.

* Bugfixes and new features to the old systems: Jobs, Help, Global Functions, +finger, etc. Nothing too major, but there are some nice new features, particularly with +jobs (like tracking new jobs, and closing a job with a comment).
* [FUDGE FUDGE Skills and Chargen]!
* New Systems! Globals (like +who/+where), Room Parents, Player Setup, +map, +cookies, and more. Pretty much everything you need to set up a game (I think).  See [Systems] for a complete list.
* Better integration between systems. They are released as a package now ensuring they always play nice together.
* Better installation. Help files are auto-installed onto +help, default attributes are auto-installed onto the player setup object, etc. The only things you have to set up manually are external systems like Cron and BBS.
* Better ability to patch in the future. All user data (I hope) should be on separate objects so you can save it easily during reinstalls.
* Better [Index documentation] (with more coming on the back-end design stuff when I have time) on the new website (see below). Everything you need to know about which systems require which other systems and such is on there. 
* I also put in a [WODSkills WOD skills/chargen] system, though I don't intend to support it. It was just something I threw together for a friend, but I thought someone else might find it useful.
* Some of the other old systems, like +tpview and +awards have been mothballed and now listed as Unsupported.

## Upgrading from 1.0 to 3.0

### Upgrade 
I highly recommend you make an @decompile of your old objects, nuke them, and install fresh.  Then copy back data as appropriate by hand.  Specific notes on the various systems are below.

### System Upgrade Notes 
Functions - If you modified any of the old functions, like lines and ICTIME you'll need to re-do those modifications.

Help - Copy everything from the old +help Database object to the new one /except/ HELP_+HELP and SHELP_+SHELP

Postmaster - Copy over your old mailing lists.  LIST_, COMMENT_ and RESTRICTED on the Main Functions and Lists object to the new Mail Lists object.

Jobs - 
* Re-create your job categories using +jobs/newcat
* Copy over your job data (JOB_ on the category objects) onto the category objects inside the job system.  
* Edit every job attribute to add three extra | vertical bars at the end of the job.
 
 OLD JOB FORMAT:   JOB_1: Test|1176179865|Lynn|||NEW|M|This is a test.|
 NEW_JOB_FORMAT:   JOB_1: Test|1176180377|Lynn|||NEW|M|This is a test.||||

* Set the NEXT_JOB attribute on the main Job DB to be one higher than your highest-numbered job (which you can tell through +jobs)

Awards - No longer supported; no upgrade required

BG - No setup required

+desc - Copy over any pre-made descs you made.  (DESC_)

Events - Copy over any +events to the event DB.  Set NEXT_EVENT to be one higher than the highest event number.

Finger - Copy over anything on your +finger DB object.  (except STATUS, which had a slight change for showing staff member status)

Term - No longer supported; no upgrade required

TP Room - Copy over any pre-set descs you had created (TPDESC_)