---
layout: module
title: 4.0 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

## Upgrading from 3.0 to 4.0

I've come to the realization that upgrading my systems is a pain.  I intend to remedy that eventually, but for now it sucks.  Sorry.

For that reason, I only recommend you grab the 'important bugfixes' and any other systems that have changes that particularly appeal to you.  It's not worth upgrading everything if you don't need to.

###  FUDGE 

* Copy over CMD-+ROLL-OPPOSED
* Update the DB#s to point to your objects.
* Update VERSION to 4.0

###  Staff Commands 

* Copy over CMD-+SUMMON, CMD-+SEND and HELP_+SEND.  
* Update VERSION to 4.0
* Run +copyhelp to install the +send help.

###  Cookie System 

* Install fresh and then copy back anything from the Cookie Data object you'd changed.


###  Player Setup 

* Copy over the FUN_SETUP_ATTR function.
* Update the DB# to point to your old player setup object
* Update VERSION to 4.0

###  Other Systems 

For any other systems, I highly recommend you make an @decompile of your old objects, nuke them, and install fresh.  Then copy back data as appropriate by hand.

## Compatability

**Tested On: PennMUSH 1.8.2 p 8**

## Changelog

**New Systems**

* +actors - Track character actor choices.
* +meetme - Meet other players for RP.
* Autospacer - Automatically insert blank lines between poses/says/emits.
* +news - Softcoded +news system.
* Weather - Simple weather generator.

**Important Bugfixes**

* FUDGE -  Fixed bug in opposed +roll.  It was using the attackers skill level for both the attacker AND defender.  Ooops.
* Staff Commands - Fixed +summon so it would actually summon people.
* +cookies - Fixed bug with cookie bbpost.  It would often have a phantom person listed as #1.
* Player Setup - Fixed two bugs in the setup_attr function.  If you had an attribute that was an evaluation, it wasn't properly evaluating it when it initialized on existing players.  Also, if you had a visible attribute, it wasn't initializing on existing players at all.


**Other Changes**

* Staff Commands - Added +send command to send players around.
* +help - Now supports partial matches (so +help census or +help cen will find the help file for "+census").   Fixed MUX compatibility bugs.  Should now work on TinyMUX.
* +alts - Made the job notice optional.
* Staff Jobs -  Priority, status and title commands were not updating activity.  Now they do.
* Globals -  Changed +idle to +afk and RP_OK to IC.   Added +fullname.   Added support for showing IC in magenta if someone's in a TP Room.   Split +RP into +IC and +OOC.  Created a separate data object for the data.
* Global Functions - Added append() and wikifi() functions.  Fixed helpfile typo.
* Room Parents - Made the TP Room parent visual so the lhelp would show up. Fixed the places help so it will get copied over to the +help system.
* A couple other minor wording tweaks in other systems.

