---
layout: module
title: 6.0 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

## Compatability
**Tested On: PennMUSH 1.8.4 p 0**

## Special Upgrade Instructions

* You must already have v5.0 or higher.
* Make a backup! I've tested the installers thoroughly but you never know.
* Open the release ZIP file. You'll see two sets of folders: one for a fresh install, and one for upgrades. 
* Go through every module in the order listed by their file numbers. If you already have that module installed, install the patch file from the Upgrades folder. If it's a new system that you want, use the Fresh Install installer. If you don't want it, obviously skip it :) 

## Changelog

FS3 Softcode
----
**Skills Changes**
* Changed die mechanics to avoid so many draws and increase success.  
* Language skills were too expensive, so now they're capped at 9.  If you already have a language skill higher than 9, it won't break anything, but I suggest allowing players to +request moving language points to somewhere else if they didn't need it that high.
* Added the concept of bonus points to chargen so you can let people request bonus points, or dole them out as needed.
* Added a default page 2 to +sheet showing demographics.
* Fixed some typos/formatting in the chargen room displays.
* Created a more flexible +ranks system that lets you have different rank charts for different factions.
**Combat Changes**
*  Allow custom types to have custom hit location charts as well.
*  Increased default wound damage modifier for Moderate wounds.
*  Stun wounds heal much faster but can knock you out faster.
*  Fixed rounding bug in armor calculation.
* Fixed rounding bug in crew hit calculation.
* Note to coders:  FUN_TARGET_TYPE now named FUN_HITLOC_TYPE.
**New Experience System**
* Added an XP system to complement the skills system.

Who
----
New configurable who system. 

Disclaimer
----
New system for requiring a terms of service agreement.


+actors
----
Changed the name of the actor set command so people wouldn't accidentally set their actor while trying to search.

+cookies
----
Put in default +luck/info for FS3 users.

FaraMail
----
Added +mail/toss as an alias to +mail/abort

Globals
----
Bug in attribute setup for ICLOC.  Removed +who/+where, which is now part of a separate system.

Global Functions
----
Line_without_color was 1 char longer than it should be

Install Manager
----
Wipe out help and commands and aconnect/adisconnect before upgrading

+help and Room Parents
----
+lhelp totally didn't work when you used the ancestor_room setting in the MUSH config.  It's now part of the help system.