---
layout: module
title: 8.0 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

## Installers

[Starter DB](http://www.aresmush.com/local--files/softcode:faraday-softcode-8-0/FaraMUSHCode%20Starter%20DB%20-%208.0%20for%201.8.5p4.zip)

[Upgrade from 7.0 8.0](http://www.aresmush.com/local--files/softcode:faraday-softcode-8-0/FaraMUSHCode%20Upgrade%20v7.0%20to%20v8.0.zip)

[Fresh Install of 8.0](http://www.aresmush.com/local--files/softcode:faraday-softcode-8-0/FaraMUSHCode-v8.0.zip)

## Special Upgrade Instructions

None

## Compatibility

**Tested On: PennMUSH 1.8.5 p 3**

## Changelog

### Bugfixes

FS3 Combat:  

- Fixed knockout.  The damage modifier wasn't getting calculated right, so the more damage you got - the more impossible it was to KO you.
- Fixed +roll when you just used a skill number (e.g. +roll 4).

Background:

- Fixed a bug where +bg/unsubmit would leave an orphanned +job.  The fix was actually in the global functions object.  isstaff needed to be Wr instead of WrJ.   

Friends List:

- Fixed a bug in the list and made it more robust to orphaned char objects.


### Big Changes

Rooms & Globals:  

- +sceneset command to add a temporary scene set description to a room.
- Changed the style of the room descriptions to show player shortdescs and cardinal exits better.

Staff:

- New +updatename command to safely change player names.  

  IMPORTANT:  This change requires you to also upgrade a whole bunch of other systems, including 
              actors, alts, events, friends, bbs, jobs, cookies, FS3 combat, mail
  I'm not sure of the specific list, so I'd recommend just updating everything to be safe!

Idle: 

- Complete rework of the idle purge system.  It provides for a public warning BBS post of impending idles, and also keeps most idled-out players around for future reference rather than nuking them.

  Why?  If integrating with a wiki, player names stay "taken" even after idling out, and sometimes it's
  convenient to be able to reference an old character object.

Roster: 

- New system to track player rosters.

Channel Alias:  

- New system to give you commonly-used aliases like "pub" for channels.

Home: 

- New system for an IC +home command.

Wiki: 

- New system to help you auto generate the text for player wiki page.
   
   Notes: 
   - This works hand in hand with my MUSH wikidot template: http://www.aresmush.com/mu-wiki-template
   - Still a little rough, because things are just hard-coded in and not configurable.
   


### Little Changes

Various Systems:

- Added support for the +updatename command.
- Changed website references.

Globals:

- Guests go back to the welcome room (room #0) when disconnecting.

Mail:

- Add error message if someone tries @mail.
- Add automatic +mail/scan on aconnect

BG: 

- Allow public BGs via a config toggle. (private by default)

Census: 

- +census/position works even when you don't have a fixed position list (though it's still not all that useful! :))

Cookies: 

- New config option to say whether you want noisy cookies (Faraday gave you a cookie!)  
  Defaults to on for new installs, and off for existing installs.

Events: 

- Creating a new event now auto-posts to an Events BBS if there is one.

FS3 Combat: 

- You can now specify a reload time for weapons, for old-style guns that need multiple actions to reload.
- On GitHub under FS3 you can find a sample configuration file for medieval equipment.  This is not part of the main installation, though, but it's there for reference.   Thanks to the folks at Steel and Stone for sharing their config.

Install: 

- Made +install/dir global for staff.

Actors: 

- There's a new staff command to clear someone's actor.

+finger: 

- For new installs, it will show alts by default.  (doesn't affect existing installs)