---
layout: module
title: 8.1 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

Since the various systems integrate together, they are released as a package in a single ZIP file.  That way you always know that you have matching versions of everything.

## Special Upgrade Instructions

In the upgrade package is a special installer "00_Special STEPS 8 to 8.1" installer that will take care of several special steps, and create +jobs explaining what else you need to do.

## Compatibility

Tested On: PennMUSH 1.8.5p4

## Release Date

03/09/2013

## Changelog

Issue numbers refer to github issues:  https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/issues

* **6	(Bug)	Can't Be Over 40 in +age**
* **7	(Bug)	IC Time Has Limited Range**
* **26	(New feature)	Simple IC Time**

IC Time had some fundamental flaws and has been replaced by a new IC time with a simple year offset.  

* **13	(Bug)	Install Manager Gets Halted**

There was an important bug in the installer that affected small databases.  It was fixed by making the install manager smarter.   NOTE: You may see "HALTED / RESTARTED" messages when installing systems now.  As long as the halt occurs right next to a restart message, don't worry about it.

* **27	(Bug)	Moderate Wound Modifier Too Low**

The moderate wound modifier has been raised, so you shouldn't be seeing people take 5-6 moderate wounds and keep on ticking (unless they're -really- lucky). 

* **25	(Bug)	Small Wounds Shouldn't KO**

It was previously promised that a single light or moderate wound wouldn't KO you, but now it's actually true!

* 11	(Bug)	Typo in BBS Help
* 12	(Bug)	+mail/scan doesn't use color
* 16	(Bug)	+xp/lang doesn't check if you have the language already
* 20	(Bug)	Misleading error on demographics exit
* 28	(Bug)	+combat/spar doesn't work for non-staff
* 31	(Bug)	OOC and Idle Lounge Descriptions Backwards
* 18	(Bug)	FS3 Channel Not Created By Default
* 17	(Bug)	Room Parent Format Functions Missing
* 19	(Bug)	Idle Purge Cron Job Not Installed
* 23	(Bug)	Shortdesc Function Not Installed
* 29	(Bug)	Double Cookies and XP awards +jobs posting
* 9	(New feature) 	One-Stop DB Doesn't Have Guests
* 14	(New feature)	+Updatename should actually change the name
* 21	(New feature)	FS3 XP Log Gets Full Quickly
