---
layout: module
title: 8.2 Release Notes
resource: true
categories: [ release ]
---

Since the various systems integrate together, they are released as a package in a single ZIP file.  That way you always know that you have matching versions of everything.

## Installers

[Starter DB](https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/blob/master/farasoftcode/Releases/FaraMUSHCode%20Starter%20DB%20-%208.2%20for%201.8.6%20p0.zip)

[Upgrade from 8.1 to 8.2](https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/blob/master/farasoftcode/Releases/FaraMUSHCode%20Upgrade%20v8.1%20to%20v8.2.zip)

[Fresh Install of 8.2](https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/blob/master/farasoftcode/Releases/FaraMUSHCode-v8.2.zip)

## Special Upgrade Instructions

See a few notes below under the Changelog regarding:

* Combat initiative ablility.
* Channel aliases.
* Skill names with hyphens.

## Compatibility

Tested On: PennMUSH 1.8.5p3

## Release Date

05/10/2014

## Changelog

Issue numbers refer to github issues:  https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/issues

### Notable Changes

**50 (Bug) NPCs always win initiative**

  There was a typo in the +combat configuration.  It was INITATIVE_ABILITY instead
  of INITIATIVE_ABILITY.  You will need to rename the attribute on your FS3COMBAT_PREFS
  object.

**55 (Feature) Better Channel Aliases**

  Channel alias system has been revamped, to allow you to more easily customize
  your channels, and also to support channel titles.  You should use the 'fresh 
  install' version of this rather than the patch version if you're upgrading an
  existing game.
  
**42 (Feature) Allow shrapnel to inherit the penetration of the weapon** and **39 (Bug) Tweak explosion damage vs armored targets**  

Explosions against armored targets should work much better now.

**40 (Feature) Show Raw Dice on FS3 Rolls**

  By popular demand, +rolls now show the actual dice results.

**45 Expand on skill level meanings**

 The old FS3 PDFs have been deleted in favor of wikidot-based documentation.
  The current docs are included in the install package, and the latest docs can
  always be found [here](https://github.com/lynnfaraday/MUSH/tree/master/farasoftcode/Docs/FS3.2).

  Among other things, this documentation now includes an expanded description 
  of what the different skill levels are intended to mean.
  
  There is also a spiffy new website for the softcode install documentation,
  helpfiles, etc. available [here](http://lynnfaraday.github.io/MUSH/). 
  
**46 (Feature) Set default action skills**  

  You can now set up default action skills, to be assigned to players when they 
  start chargen.

**41 (Bug) Hyphenated Skill Names Are Not Handled Properly**

  Chargen no longer allows skill names with hyphens.  If you have any, or if you have 
  players who have selected BG skills with hyphens, you should forcibly rename them.

**33 (Bug) TP Room Doesn't Save Descs**

   The tp room setup help failed to mention that TP rooms need to be set WIZ.  Otherwise
   they won't save descs properly.

### Other misc changes
  
* 38 (Feature) Allow +damage/scan to work on chars not in your room
* 48 (Feature) +sweep to clear out private rooms
* 54 (Bug) +map - Areas with spaces don't work
* 32 (Bug) +who doesn't report people in TP rooms as IC
* 44 (Bug) XP cost of languages is undocumented

### Started DB Fixes

These changes only affected the starter database, and are not relevant to existing games.

* 36 Wrong parent on OOC Center
* 35 No +accept command for accepting disclaimer